| HAI LAMA MTANDAO WA TANTRA MAT TAITAA NYT US009740680B1 ( 12 ) United States Patent Mikolov et al . ( 10 ) Patent No . : ( 45 ) Date of Patent : US 9 , 740 , 680 B1 * Aug . 22 , 2017 ( 54 ) COMPUTING NUMERIC REPRESENTATIONS OF WORDS IN HIGH - DIMENSIONAL SPACE A ( 71 ) Applicant : Google Inc . , Mountain View , CA ( US ) ( 72 ) Inventors : Tomas Mikolov , Jersey City , NJ ( US ) ; Kai Chen , San Bruno , CA ( US ) ; Gregory S . Corrado , San Francisco , CA ( US ) ; Jeffrey A . Dean , Palo Alto , CA ( US ) ( 73 ) Assignee : Google Inc . , Mountain View , CA ( US ) ( * ) Notice : Subject to any disclaimer , the term of this patent is extended or adjusted under 35 U . S . C . 154 ( b ) by 83 days . This patent is subject to a terminal dis claimer . ( 21 ) Appl . No . : 14 / 715 , 421 ( 22 ) Filed : May 18 , 2015 Related U . S . Application Data ( 63 ) Continuation of application No . 13 / 841 , 640 , filed on Mar . 15 , 2013 , now Pat . No . 9 , 037 , 464 . ( 60 ) Provisional application No . 61 / 752 , 911 , filed on Jan . , 2013 ( 51 ) Int . Cl . GIOL 15 / 00 G06F 17 / 27 GIOL 15 / 06 ( 52 ) U . S . CI . ( 2013 . 01 ) ( 2006 . 01 ) ( 2013 . 01 ) CPC . . . . . . . . . . G06F 17 / 2765 ( 2013 . 01 ) ; GIOL 15 / 06 ( 2013 . 01 ) ( 58 ) Field of Classification Search CPC . . . G10L 15 / 06 ; G10L 15 / 0631 ; G10L 15 / 285 USPC . . . . . See application file for complete search history . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 704 / 243 ( 56 ) References Cited U . S . PATENT DOCUMENTS , 454 , 062 A * / 1995 La Rue . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . BOOR 16 / 0373 / 251 , 909 , 666 A , 920 , 836 A , 960 , 394 A , 092 , 043 A / 1999 Gould et al . / 1999 Gould et al . / 1999 Gould et al . / 2000 Squires et al . , 507 , 815 B1 * / 2003 Yamamoto . . . . . . . . . . . . . . GIOL 15 / 06 / 231 ( Continued ) OTHER PUBLICATIONS Bengio and LeCun , “ Scaling learning algorithms towards AI , ” Large - Scale Kernel Machines , MIT Press , 41 pages , 2007 . ( Continued ) Primary Examiner - Daniel Abebe ( 74 ) Attorney , Agent , or Firm — Fish & Richardson P . C . ( 57 ) ABSTRACT Methods , systems , and apparatus , including computer pro grams encoded on computer storage media , for computing numeric representations of words . One of the methods includes obtaining a set of training data , wherein the set of training data comprises sequences of words ; training a classifier and an embedding function on the set of training data , wherein training the embedding function comprises obtained trained values of the embedding function param eters ; processing each word in the vocabulary using the embedding function in accordance with the trained values of the embedding function parameters to generate a respective numerical representation of each word in the vocabulary in the high - dimensional space ; and associating each word in the vocabulary with the respective numeric representation of the word in the high - dimensional space . Claims , 5 Drawing Sheets Word Prediction System Predicted Word Store Word score vector Classifier 110 Floating point representation Embedding Function Word Store Word ( t - N ) Word Store Word ( t - 1 ) Word Store Word ( t + 1 ) Word Store - Word ( t + N ) US 9 , 740 , 680 B1 Page 2 ( 56 ) References Cited U . S . PATENT DOCUMENTS , 721 , 702 B2 * / 2004 Schneider , 406 , 417 B1 * / 2008 Hain , 566 , 102 B1 / 0262467 Al / 2013 Bangalore et al . / 2013 Zhang et al . GIOL 15 / 22 / 231 GIOL 13 / 08 / 260 OTHER PUBLICATIONS Bengio et al . , “ A neural probabilistic language model , ” Journal of Machine Learning Research , 3 : 1137 - 1155 , 2003 . Brants et al . , “ Large language models in machine translation , " Proceedings of the Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing and Computational Language Learn ing , 10 pages , 2007 . Collobert and Weston , “ A Unified Architecture for Natural Lan guage Processing : Deep Neural Networks with Multitask Learn ing , ” International Conference on Machine Learning , ICML , 8 Collobert et al . , “ Natural Language Processing ( Almost ) from Scratch , ” Journal of Machine Learning Research , 12 : 2493 - 2537 , pages , 2008 . . Dean et al . , “ Large Scale Distributed Deep Networks , ” Neural Information Processing Systems Conference , 9 pages , 2012 . Elman , “ Finding Structure in Time , ” Cognitive Science , 14 , 179 pages . , 1990 . Huang et al . , “ Improving Word Representations via Global Context and Multiple Word Prototypes , ” Proc . Association for Computa tional Linguistics , 10 pages , 2012 . Mikolov and Zweig , “ Linguistic Regularities in Continuous Space Word Representations , " submitted to NAACL HLT , 6 pages , 2012 . Mikolov et al . , “ Empirical Evaluation and Combination of Advanced Language Modeling Techniques , ” Proceedings of Interspeech , 4 pages , 2011 . Mikolov et al . , “ Extensions of recurrent neural network language model , ” IEEE International Conference on Acoustics , Speech and Signal Processing ( ICASSP ) , pp . 5528 - 5531 , May 22 - 27 , 2011 . Mikolov et al . , “ Neural network based language models for highly inflective languages , " Proc . ICASSP , 4 pages , 2009 . Mikolov et al . , “ Recurrent neural network based language model , ” Proceedings of Interspeech , 4 pages , 2010 . Mikolov et al . , “ Strategies for Training Large Scale Neural Network Language Models , ” Proc . Automatic Speech Recognition and Understanding , 6 pages , 2011 . Mikolov , “ RNNLM Toolkit , ” Faculty of Information Technology ( FIT ) of Brno University of Technology [ online ] , 2010 - 2012 [ retrieved on Jun . 16 , 2014 ] . Retrieved from the Internet : < URL : http : / / www . fit . vutbr . cz / - imikolov / rnnlm > , 3 pages . Mikolov , “ Statistical Language Models based on Neural Networks , ” PhD thesis , Brno University of Technology , 133 pages , 2012 . Mnih and Hinton , “ A Scalable Hierarchical Distributed Language Model , ” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 21 , MIT Press , 8 pages , 2009 . Morin and Bengio , “ Hierarchical Probabilistic Neural Network Language Model , " AISTATS , 7 pages , 2005 . Rumelhart et al . , “ Learning representations by back - propagating errors , ” Nature , 323 : 533 - 536 , 1986 . Turian et al . , “ MetaOptimize / projects / wordreprs / Metaoptimize . com [ online ] , captured on Mar . 7 , 2012 . Retrieved from the Internet using the Wayback Machine : < URL : http : / / web . archive . org / web / / http : / / metaoptimize . com / projects / wordreprs > , 2 Turlan et al . , “ Word Representations : A Simple and General Method for Semi - Supervised Learning , ” Proc . Association for Computa tional Linguistics , 384 - 394 , 2010 . Turney , “ Measuring Semantic Similarity by Latent Relational Analysis , ” Proc . International Joint Conference on Artificial Intel ligence , 6 pages , 2005 . Zweig and Burges , “ The Microsoft Research Sentence Completion Challenge , ” Microsoft Research Technical Report MSR - TR - 2011 , 7 pages , Feb . 20 , 2011 . * cited by examiner U . S . Patent Aug . 22 , 2017 Sheet lofs US 9 . 740 , 680 B1 Word Prediction System 100 Predicted Word Store Word score vector | 112 Classifier 0 Floating point representation Embedding Function Store Word Word ???? FIG . 1 Word ( t - 1 ) Word ( t + N ) Word ( t + 1 ) Word ( t - N ) Word Word Store Store Store U . S . Patent Aug . 22 , 2017 Sheet 2 of 5 US 9 , 740 , 680 B1 Obtain words in sequence Process words using embedding functions Process numberic representation of words using classifier FIG . 2 U . S . Patent Aug . 22 , 2017 Sheet 3 of 5 US 9 , 740 , 680 B1 Predicted Word Store t - N Predicted Word Store t - 1 Predicted Word Store t + 1 Classifier t - 1 Classifier t + 1 Predicted Word Store t + N Classifier t + N Word score vector 312 Classifier t - N Floating point Representation Word Prediction System Embedding Function Word Store Word ( t ) FIG . 3 U . S . Patent Aug . 22 , 2017 Sheet 4 of 5 US 9 , 740 , 680 B1 Process word using embedding function Process numeric representation using sets of classifiers Obtain word FIG . 4 U . S . Patent Aug . 22 , 2017 Sheet 5 of 5 US 9 , 740 , 680 B1 Obtain set of training data Perform training process Process each word in the vocabulary using embedding function Associate each word in the vocabulary with the respective representation of the word FIG . 5 US 9 , 740 , 680 B1 COMPUTING NUMERIC REPRESENTATIONS OF WORDS IN A HIGH - DIMENSIONAL SPACE CROSS - REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS This application is a continuation of U . S . application Ser . No . 13 / 841 , 640 , filed on Mar . 15 , 2013 , which claims the benefit of priority under 35 U . S . C . $ 119 ( e ) of U . S . Provi - 10 space . sional Application No . 61 / 752 , 911 , filed Jan . 15 , 2013 . The disclosures of the prior applications are considered part of and are incorporated by reference in the disclosure of this application . BACKGROUND sequence of words , e . g . , in a sentence or a phrase , some systems convert one or more of the words in the sequence into numeric representations . SUMMARY In general , one innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a system that includes a classifier implemented in one or more com of words , wherein each of the respective word scores represents a predicted likelihood that the corresponding word will be found in the corresponding position relative to the input word ; and instructions to process each word in a vocabulary of words using the embedding function layer to obtain a respective numeric representation of each word in the vocabulary in the high - dimensional space and to asso ciate each word in the vocabulary with the respective numeric representation of the word in the high - dimensional T hese and other embodiments can each optionally include one or more of the following features . The numeric repre sentations can be continuous representations represented using floating - point numbers . Positions of representations in the high - dimensional space can reflect semantic similarities , syntactic similarities , or both , between words represented by the representations . The embedding layer can map the input In general , another innovative aspect of the subject matter that include the actions of obtaining a set of training data , wherein the set of training data comprises sequences of words ; training a plurality of classifiers and an embedding function on the set of training data , wherein the embedding function receives an input word and maps the input word to a numeric representation in the high - dimensional space in accordance with a set of embedding function parameters , wherein each of the classifiers corresponds to a respective position surrounding the input word in a sequence of words , This specification relates to computing numeric represen - word to a floating point vector . tations of words . In order to predict one or more unknown words in a 20 described in this specification can be embodied in methods puters , comprising : an embedding function layer configured 30 and wherein each of the classifiers processes the numeric to receive an input comprising a plurality of words that surround an unknown word in a sequence of words and map the plurality of words into a numeric representation in a high - dimensional space ; and a classifier layer configured to representation of the input word to generate a respective word score for each word in a pre - determined set of words , wherein each of the respective word scores represents a predicted likelihood that the corresponding word will be process the numeric representation of the input to generate 35 found in the corresponding position relative to the input a respective word score for each word in a pre - determined set of words , wherein each of the respective word scores represents a predicted likelihood that the corresponding word is the unknown word ; and instructions to process each word , and wherein training the embedding function com prises obtaining trained values of the embedding function parameters ; processing each word in the vocabulary using the embedding function in accordance with the trained word in a vocabulary of words using the embedding function 40 values of the embedding function parameters to generate a layer to obtain a respective numeric representation of each word in the vocabulary in the high - dimensional space and to associate each word in the vocabulary with the respective numeric representation of the word in the high - dimensional These and other embodiments can each optionally include one or more of the following features . The numeric repre - sentations can be continuous representations represented using floating - point numbers . Positions of representations in space . respective numerical representation of each word in the vocabulary ; and associating each word in the vocabulary with the respective numeric representation of the word in the high - dimensional space . Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems , apparatus , and computer programs , configured to perform the actions of the methods , encoded on computer storage devices . These and other embodiments can each optionally include the high - dimensional space can reflect semantic similarities , 50 one or more of the following features . The numeric repre syntactic similarities , or both , between words represented by the representations . The embedding layer can map each of the plurality of words to a respective floating point vector and outputs a single merged vector that is a combination of the respective floating point vectors . In general , one innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a system that includes a classifier implemented in one or more com - puters , comprising : an embedding function layer configured sentations can be continuous representations represented using floating - point numbers . Positions of representations in the high - dimensional space can reflect semantic similarities , syntactic similarities , or both , between words represented by the representations . The embedding layer can map the input word to a floating point vector . In general , another innovative aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in methods that include the actions of obtaining a set of training data , to receive an input comprising an input word and map the 60 wherein the set of training data comprises sequences of input word into a numeric representation in a high - dimen - sional space , and a plurality of classifiers , wherein each of the classifiers corresponds to a respective position surround ing the input word in a sequence of words , and wherein each words ; training a classifier and an embedding function on the set of training data , wherein the embedding function receives a plurality of words surrounding an unknown word in a sequence of words and maps the plurality of words into of the plurality of classifiers is configured to : process the 65 a numeric representation in accordance with a set of embed numeric representation of the input word to generate a respective word score for each word in a pre - determined set ding function parameters , wherein the classifier processes the numeric representation of the sequence of words to US 9 , 740 , 680 B1 generate a respective word score for each word in a pre determined set of words , and wherein each of the respective word scores measure a predicted likelihood that the corre sponding word is the unknown word , and wherein training the embedding function comprises obtained trained values 5 of the embedding function parameters ; processing each word in the vocabulary using the embedding function in accordance with the trained values of the embedding func tion parameters to generate a respective numerical represen FIG . 2 is a flow diagram of an example process for predicting a word based on surrounding words . FIG . 3 is a block diagram of another example word prediction system . FIG . 4 is a flow diagram of an example process for predicting words that surround a word in a sequence of FIG . 5 is a flow diagram of an example process for generating numeric representations in a high - dimensional words . tation of each word in the vocabulary in the high - dimen sional space ; and associating each word in the vocabulary 10 space for a vocabulary of words . with the respective numeric representation of the word in the Like reference numbers and designations in the various drawings indicate like elements . high - dimensional space . Other embodiments of this aspect include corresponding systems , apparatus , and computer programs , configured to perform the actions of the methods , encoded on computer 15 storage devices . These and other embodiments can each optionally include one or more of the following features . The numeric repre - sentations can be continuous representations represented DETAILED DESCRIPTION This specification generally describes systems that can be used to generate numeric representations of words in high - dimensional space . The numeric representations are continuous high - dimensional representations , i . e . , words are a using floating - point numbers . Positions of representations in 20 represented by floating point numbers in a high - dimensional the high - dimensional space can reflect semantic similarities , syntactic similarities , or both , between words represented by the representations . The embedding layer can map each of the plurality of words to a respective floating point vector space , e . g . , as high - dimensional vectors of floating point numbers . The systems can be trained so that positions of the representations in the high - dimensional space generated by the systems reflect semantic and syntactic similarities and outputs a single merged vector that is a combination of 25 between the words they represent . the respective floating point vectors . A system of one or more computers can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of having software , firmware , hardware , or a combination of them FIG . 1 is a block diagram of an example word prediction system 100 . The word prediction system 100 is an example of a system implemented as computer programs on one or installed on the system that in operation causes or cause the system to perform the actions . One or more computer 30 systems , components , and techniques described below can more computers in one or more locations , in which the be implemented . programs can be configured to perform particular operations or actions by virtue of including instructions that , when executed by data processing apparatus , cause the apparatus to perform the actions . The word prediction system 100 receives inputs and generates a predicted output based on the received inputs . In particular , the inputs are words that surround an unknown Particular embodiments of the subject matter described in 35 word in a sequence of words , e . g . , in a phrase or a sentence , this specification can be implemented so as to realize one or more of the following advantages . Unknown words in sequences of words can be effectively predicted if the surrounding words are known . Words surrounding a known and the predicted output is a respective score for each of a predetermined set of words . In some implementations , the input words are tokenized before being received by the system , e . g . , so that known compounds , e . g . , “ New York word in a sequence of words can be effectively predicted . 40 City ” and other entity names , are treated as a single word by Numerical representations of words in a vocabulary of words can be easily and effectively generated . The numeri cal representations can reveal semantic and syntactic simi larities and relationships between the words that they rep - resent . By using a word prediction system having a two - layer architecture and by parallelizing the training process , the word prediction system can be can be effectively trained on very large word corpuses , e . g . , corpuses that contain on the order of 200 billion words , resulting in higher quality numeric representations than those that are obtained by 30 50 training systems on relatively smaller word corpuses . Fur ther , words can be represented in very high - dimensional spaces , e . g . , spaces that that have on the order of 1000 dimensions , resulting in higher quality representations than the system . Each score generated for each of the words is a prediction of how likely it is that the corresponding word is the unknown word . For example , for a sequence of words X , XX , where the words X , and X , are known and the word X2 is not , the word prediction system 100 can receive as an input the words X and X , and generate a score for each of the predetermined set of words that is a prediction of how likely it is that the corresponding word is the unknown word X , . For example , the word prediction system 100 can receive a sequence of words 104 from respective word data stores . Each word data store 102 stores words in a respective position in a sequence of words that includes an unknown word . For example , if a word at position tin a sequence of when words are represented in relatively lower - dimensional 55 words is unknown , the word data stores 102 may store words spaces . Additionally , the time required to train the word prediction system can be greatly reduced . The details of one or more embodiments of the subject matter of this specification are set forth in the accompanying at position t - N , . . . , t - 1 , t + 1 , . . . , t + N , respectively , where N is a predetermined integer value . Thus , the sequence of words 104 received by the word prediction system 100 are words at positions t - N , . . . , t - 1 , t + 1 , . . . , t + N , in a particular drawings and the description below . Other features , aspects , 60 sequence of words having an unknown word at position t . and advantages of the subject matter will become apparent from the description , the drawings , and the claims . BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS FIG . 1 is a block diagram of an example word prediction system . The word prediction system 100 uses the sequence of words to predict an output , i . e . , a vector of scores that includes a respective score for each word of the set of words that represents a predicted likelihood that the corresponding word will be found at position t in the sequence . The word prediction system 100 includes an embedding function 106 and a classifier 110 . The embedding function US 9 , 740 , 680 B1 receives a sequence of words and , in accordance with a set of embedding function parameters , applies a transfor mation to the words that maps the words into a continuous high - dimensional numeric representation . For example , the map “ Atlanta ” to a vector [ 0 . 1 , 0 . 2 , 0 . 3 ] and “ Hotel ” to [ 0 . 4 , . 5 , 0 . 6 ) , and then output the sum of the two vectors , i . e . , [ 0 . 5 , 0 . 7 , 0 . 9 ] . The system processes the numeric representations using a embedding function 106 can apply a transformation to the 5 classifier ( step 206 ) to predict an output for each of a set of words 104 to map the words into a floating point represen tation 108 . Embedding functions will be described in more detail below with reference to FIG . 2 . words . The classifier predicts the output based on values of a set of parameters and the numeric representation . The output for a given word is a prediction of the value of a variable that corresponds to the word , e . g . , a score for the The classifier 110 receives the numeric representation generated by the embedding function 106 and predicts a 10 word that represents the predicted likelihood that the word is the unknown word at position t . In some implementations , value for each field of a word score vector in accordance with values of classifier parameters . Each of the fields in the word score vector corresponds to a respective word in the set of words . For example , the classifier 110 can generate a 15 word score vector 112 from the floating point representation . The classifier 110 can be any multiclass or multilabel classifier , e . g . , a multiclass logistic regression classifier , a multiclass support vector machine classifier , a Bayesian the system can process the numeric representation of the input words using a ranking function instead of a classifier to predict a ranking of the words according to the predicted Own sequence . The process 200 can be performed to predict scores for an input for which the desired output is not known , i . e . , for a sequence of words in which one word is not known . The classifier , and so on . In some implementations , instead of the 20 process 200 can also be performed on inputs in a set of classifier 110 , the concept term scoring system 100 can include a ranking function that orders the words based on the numeric representation generated by the embedding func tion 106 , i . e . , in order of predicted likelihood of being the training data , i . e . , a set of inputs for which the output that should be predicted by the system is known , in order to train the system , i . e . , to determine optimal values for the param eters of the classifier and the deep network . For example , the word at position t . The ranking function may be , e . g . , a 25 process 200 can be performed repeatedly on inputs selected hinge - loss ranking function , a pairwise ranking function , and so on . Once generated , the word score vectors can be stored in a predicted word store 114 or used for some immediate purpose . from a set of training data as part of a backpropagation training technique that determines optimal values for each of the parameters . Generally , the inputs in the set of training data are sequences of words in which every word in the FIG . 2 is a flow diagram of an example process 200 for 30 sequence is known . predicting a word based on surrounding words . For conve nience , the process 200 will be described as being performed by a system of one or more computers located in one or more locations . For example , a word prediction system , e . g . , the word prediction system 200 of FIG . 2 , appropriately pro grammed , can perform the process 200 . The system obtains a set of input words ( step 202 ) . The set of input words are words from a sequence of words that As part of the training process , if the label predicted by the classifier for a particular sequence of words in the set of training data is different from the known desired label for that particular sequence of words , i . e . , the word scores ; 8 , Me 35 generated by the classifier do not align with the actual value of the unknown word , the classifier will adjust its parameters so as to reduce the expected error on that particular input using conventional gradient based methods . Furthermore , as part of the backpropagation method , the classifier sends an includes an unknown word whose value is to be predicted . 40 error signal to the embedding function , which allows the That is , if the sequence includes an unknown word at position t , the set of input words may be the words at position t - N , . . . , t - 1 , t + 1 , . . . , and t + N in the sequence . In some implementations , the input words are tokenized embedding function to adjust its parameters through suc cessive stages of backpropagation . In some circumstances , e . g . , for large sets of training data , the training process can be parallelized in any of a variety of before being received by the system , e . g . , so that known 45 ways . For example , the training process can be parallelized compounds are treated as a single word by the system . The system processes the words using an embedding function ( step 204 ) to generate a numeric representation of the words . For example , the embedding function may be a combin - 50 ing embedding function . A combining embedding function maps each word in the sequence of words to a respective continuous high - dimensional representation , respective high - dimensional vector of floating point num - e . g . , to a using one or more of the techniques for parallelizing the training of a machine learning model described in “ Large Scale Distributed Deep Networks , ” Jeffrey Dean , et al . , Neural Information Processing Systems Conference , 2012 . FIG . 3 is a block diagram of another example word prediction system 300 . The word prediction system 300 is an example of a system implemented as computer programs on one or more computers in one or more locations , in which the systems , components , and techniques described below bers , based on current parameter values of the embedding 55 can be implemented . function , e . g . , as stored in a lookup table , and then merges the respective floating point vectors into a single merged vector . The combining embedding function can merge the respective floating point vectors using a linear function , e . g . , The word prediction system 300 receives an input and generates a predicted output based on the received input . In particular , the input is a word and the output is a respective score vector for each position surrounding the position of the a sum , average , or weighted linear combination of the 60 input word in a sequence of words . In some implementa respective floating point vectors , or using a nonlinear func - tion , e . g . , a component - wise maximum or a norm - con - strained linear combination , for example . In order to identify the respective floating point vectors , the parallel embedding tions , input words are tokenized before being received by the system , e . g . , so that the input word can be a known com pound that is treated as a single word by the system . The score vector for a given position includes a respective score function may use a single lookup table or multiple different 65 for each of a predetermined set of words . Each score is a lookup tables . As a simplified example , for the ordered list { " Atlanta ” , “ Hotel ” ) , the parallel embedding function may prediction of how likely it is that the word is the word at that position in the sequence . For example , for a sequence of US 9 , 740 , 680 B1 of words that is a prediction of how likely it is that the 5 function ( step 404 ) to generate a numeric representation of words X X X3 , where the word X , is known and the words X , and X , are not , the word prediction system 300 can receive as an input the word X2 and , for each of the words X and X3 , generate a score for each of the predetermined set corresponding word will be found at the corresponding position in the sequence relative to the input word , i . e . , that the corresponding word is the unknown word X , or the unknown word X3 . system . being received by the system , e . g . , so that the input word can be a known compound that is treated as a single word by the The system processes the word using an embedding the word in a high - dimensional space . The embedding function maps the word to a continuous high - dimensional representation , e . g . , to a high - dimensional vector of floating point numbers . For example , the embedding function may " tablet ' to a vector [ 0 . 3 , 0 . 9 , 0 . 0 ] , based on current parameter values of the embedding function , e . g . , as stored in a lookup For example , the word prediction system 300 can receive 10 10 map the word ' cat ' to a vector [ 0 . 1 , 0 . 5 , 0 . 2 ] and the word an input word 304 from a word data store 302 . The input word 304 is a word at position t in a sequence of words in which the words in the other positions in the sequence , i . e . , table . the words at positions t - N , . . . , t - 1 , t + 1 , . . . , and t + N , are 15 each of a set of classifiers ( step 406 ) to predict an output for The system processes the numeric representation using not known , i . e . , are to be predicted by the word prediction system 300 . The word prediction system 300 uses the input word 304 to predict an output , i . e . , for each of the positions t - N , . . . , t - 1 , t + 1 , . . . , and t + N , the word prediction 300 each of a set of positions surrounding position t , i . e . , the words in the positions t - N , . . . , t - 1 , t + 1 , . . . , and t + N in the sequence . Each classifier predicts an output for a respec tive position in the sequence based on values of a set of generates a vector of scores that includes a respective score 20 parameters and the numeric representation . The output for a for each word of the set of words . The word prediction system 300 includes an embedding function 306 and a set of classifiers 310 . The embedding function 306 receives an input word and , in accordance with given position in the sequence is a set of predicted values of variables that each correspond to a respective word from the pre - determined set of words , e . g . , a score for the word that represents the predicted likelihood that the word is the word a set of embedding function parameters , applies a transfor - 25 in the position . In some implementations , the system can mation to the word that maps the word into a continuous high - dimensional numeric representation . For example , the embedding function 306 can apply a transformation to the input word 304 to map the word into a floating point representation 308 . Embedding functions will be described 30 in more detail below with reference to FIG . 4 . Each of the classifiers 310 receives the numeric repre - sentation generated by the embedding function 306 and predicts a value for each field of a respective word score process the numeric representation of the input words using ranking functions instead of classifiers to predict a ranking of the words according to the predicted likelihood that each of the words is at the corresponding position in the sequence . Like the process 200 , the process 400 can be performed on inputs for which the desired output is not known , i . e . , on an input word for which the surrounding words are not known , or on inputs from a set of training data , i . e . , on an input word for which the surrounding words are known , as vector in accordance with values of a respective set of 35 part of a training process . classifier parameters . Generally , each of the classifiers 310 will have different values of the classifier parameters . Each word score vector corresponds to a respective position in the sequence of words . For example , the word score vector 312 As part of the training process , if the label predicted by one of the classifiers for a particular input word in the set of training data is different from the known desired label for that particular word , i . e . , the word scores generated by the includes values for each of the predetermined set of words 40 classifier do not align with the value of the word in the that is a prediction of how likely it is that the corresponding word is the word at position t - N in the sequence . The classifiers 310 can be any multiclass or multilabel classifier , e . g . , a multiclass logistic regression classifier , a multiclass corresponding position , the classifier will adjust its param eters so as to reduce the expected error on that particular input using conventional gradient based methods . Further more , as part of the backpropagation method , the classifier support vector machine classifier , a Bayesian classifier , and 45 sends an error signal to the embedding function , which so on . In some implementations , instead of the classifiers , the concept term scoring system 300 can include ranking functions that each order the words based on the numeric representation generated by the embedding func - tion 106 , i . e . , in order of predicted likelihood of being the 50 word at the corresponding position . The ranking function may be , e . g . , a hinge - loss ranking function , a pairwise ranking function , and so on . Once generated , the word score vectors can be stored in allows the embedding function to adjust its parameters through successive stages of backpropagation . As described above with reference to FIG . 2 , the training process can be parallelized in any of a variety of ways . Once the word prediction system 100 and the word prediction system 300 have been trained and the parameters of the embedding function 106 and the embedding function have been adjusted , the numeric representations pro duced by the embedding functions can be used for a variety a respective predicted word store 314 or used for some 55 of purposes other than as input to a classifier . For example , immediate purpose . FIG . 4 is a flow diagram of an example process 400 for predicting words that surround a known word in a sequence of words . For convenience , the process 400 will be by training the word prediction system 100 or the word prediction system 300 to generate trained values of embed ding function parameters for the embedding function 106 or the embedding function 306 , e . g . , as described below with described as being performed by a system of one or more 60 reference to FIG . 5 , the numeric representations produced by computers located in one or more locations . For example , a word prediction system , e . g . , the word prediction system of FIG . 3 , appropriately programmed , can perform the process 400 . the embedding functions can encode many useful regulari ties . That is , the positions of the representations in the high - dimensional space can reflect syntactic similarities , e . g . , showing that , by virtue of the positions of the numerical The system obtains an input word ( step 402 ) . The input 65 representations of each word in the space , words that are word is a word that is at position t in a sequence of words . In some implementations , input words are tokenized before similar to the word " small " include the words “ smaller , " " tiny , " " smallest , ” and so on , and semantic similarities , e . g . , US 9 , 740 , 680 B1 showing that the word “ queen ” is similar to the words “ king ” and “ prince . ” Furthermore , because of the encoded regu - larities , the numeric representations may show that the word “ king ” is similar to the word “ queen ” in the same sense as of words and their associated representations . As described above , because the numeric representations were generated in accordance with the trained parameters of the embedding function , the numeric representations may reflect certain the word " prince ” is similar to the word " princess , " and 5 semantic similarities between the words that they represent . alternatively that the word " king " is similar to the word " prince " as the word “ queen ” is similar to the word " prin - cess . ” Advantageously , operations can be performed on the numeric representations to identify words that have a desired That is , positions of the representations in the high - dimen sional space will reflect semantic and syntactic similarities between the represented words . Additionally , the predictions generated by the system 100 relationship to other words . In particular , vector subtraction 10 or the system 300 , i . e . , predictions of likelihoods of words and vector addition operations performed on floating point vectors generated by an embedding function in accordance with trained values of the parameters of the embedding function can be used to determine relationships between words . For example , in order to identify a word that has a similar relationship to a word A as a word B has to a word C , the following operation may be performed on the vectors representing words A , B , and C : vector ( A ) - vector ( B ) + vector ( C ) . For example , the operation vector ( “ King ” ) - vec - being found at particular positions in sequences of words , can be used in any of a variety of ways . For example , the system 100 or the system 300 , once trained , can be used to predict missing words at various positions in sentences . As another example , the system 100 or the system 300 can be used by a question / answer system to predict the answer to a known question or to predict the question to a known answer . That is , the system 100 or the system 300 can be trained on known question - answer pairs , and can then be tor ( “ Man ” ) + vector ( “ Woman ” ) may result in a vector that is 20 used to predict a question if all or part of an answer is known closest to the vector representation of the word “ Queen . ” FIG . 5 is a flow diagram of an example process 500 for generating numeric representations in a high - dimensional space for a vocabulary of words . For convenience , the or an answer if all or part of a question is known . Embodiments of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be imple mented in digital electronic circuitry , in tangibly - embodied process 500 will be described as being performed by a 25 computer software or firmware , in computer hardware , system of one or more computers located in one or more locations . For example , a word prediction system , e . g . , the word prediction system 100 of FIG . 1 or the word prediction system 300 of FIG . 3 , appropriately programmed , can per - form the process 500 . The system obtains a set of training data ( step 502 ) . The set of training data includes sequences of known words , e . g . , sentences or phrases . In some implementations , the training data is tokenized before being received by the system , e . g . , including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents , or in combinations of one or more of them . Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer programs , i . e . , one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a tangible non transitory program carrier for execution by , or to control the operation of , data processing apparatus . Alternatively or in addition , the program instructions can be encoded on an artificially so that known compounds are treated as a single word by the 35 generated propagated signal , e . g . , a machine - generated elec system . The system performs a training process to train one or more classifiers and an embedding function ( step 504 ) , e . g . , the embedding function 106 and the classifier 110 of FIG . 1 trical , optical , or electromagnetic signal , that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus for execution by a data processing apparatus . The computer storage medium can be a machine - readable stor or the embedding function 306 and the set of classifiers 310 40 age device , a machine - readable storage substrate , a random of FIG . 3 . The training process can be performed repeatedly on inputs selected from the set of training data as part of a backpropagation training technique that determines trained values for each of the parameters of the classifier . or serial access memory device , or a combination of one or more of them . The term “ data processing apparatus " encompasses all kinds of apparatus , devices , and machines for processing As part of the training process , if the label predicted by a 45 data , including by way of example a programmable proces classifier for a particular sequence of words in the set of training data is different from the known desired label for that particular sequence of words , i . e . , the word scores generated by the classifier do not align with the actual value sor , a computer , or multiple processors or computers . The apparatus can include special purpose logic circuitry , e . g . , an FPGA ( field programmable gate array ) or an ASIC ( appli cation specific integrated circuit ) . The apparatus can also of the unknown word or words in the sequence , the classifier 50 include , in addition to hardware , code that creates an execu will adjust its parameters so as to reduce the expected error on that particular input using conventional gradient based methods . Furthermore , as part of the backpropagation method , the classifier sends an error signal to the embedding function , which allows the embedding function to adjust its 55 parameters through successive stages of backpropagation The system processes each word in the vocabulary of words using the embedding function ( step 506 ) in accor - dance with the trained embedding function parameters of the t ion environment for the computer program in question , e . g . , code that constitutes processor firmware , a protocol stack , a database management system , an operating system , or a combination of one or more of them . A computer program ( which may also be referred to or described as a program , software , a software application , a module , a software module , a script , or code ) can be written in any form of programming language , including compiled or interpreted languages , or declarative or procedural lan embedding function to generate a respective continuous 60 guages , and it can be deployed in any form , including as a numeric representation of each of the words in the high - dimensional space . For example , the numeric representa tions may be floating point vectors , i . e . , high - dimensional vectors of floating point values . stand - alone program or as a module , component , subroutine , or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment . A computer program may , but need not , correspond to a file in a file system . A program can be stored in a portion of a file The system associates each word in the vocabulary with 65 that holds other programs or data , e . g . , one or more scripts the respective numeric representation of the word ( step 508 ) . The system can then store the associations , e . g . , as a data set stored in a markup language document , in a single file dedicated to the program in question , or in multiple coor US 9 , 740 , 680 B1 dinated files , e . g . , files that store one or more modules , sub programs , or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication net - work . The processes and logic flows described in this specifi - cation can be performed by one or more programmable computers executing one or more computer programs to Internet . the subject matter described in this specification , or any combination of one or more such back end , middleware , or front end components . The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication , e . g . , a communication network . Examples of communication networks include a local area network ( “ LAN ” ) and a wide area network ( “ WAN ” ) , e . g . , the The computing system can include clients and servers . A perform functions by operating on input data and generating 10 client and server are generally remote from each other and output . The processes and logic flows can also be performed by , and apparatus can also be implemented as , special purpose logic circuitry , e . g . , an FPGA ( field programmable gate array ) or an ASIC ( application specific integrated Computers suitable for the execution of a computer program include , by way of example , can be based on general or special purpose microprocessors or both , or any other kind of central processing unit . Generally , a central circuit ) . typically interact through a communication network . The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client - server relationship to each other . While this specification contains many specific imple mentation details , these should not be construed as limita tions on the scope of any invention or of what may be claimed , but rather as descriptions of features that may be specific to particular embodiments of particular inventions . processing unit will receive instructions and data from a read 20 Certain features that are described in this specification in the only memory or a random access memory or both . The essential elements of a computer are a central processing unit for performing or executing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data . context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment . Conversely , various features that are described in the context of a single embodi ment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments Generally , a computer will also include , or be operatively 25 separately or in any suitable subcombination . Moreover , coupled to receive data from or transfer data to , or both , one or more mass storage devices for storing data , e . g . , mag netic , magneto optical disks , or optical disks . However , a computer need not have such devices . Moreover , a computer although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such , one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination , and the claimed can be embedded in another device , e . g . , a mobile telephone , 30 combination may be directed to a subcombination or varia a personal digital assistant ( PDA ) , a mobile audio or video player , a game console , a Global Positioning System ( GPS ) receiver , or a portable storage device , e . g . , a universal serial bus ( USB ) flash drive , to name just a few . tion of a subcombination . Similarly , while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order , this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order Computer readable media suitable for storing computer 35 shown or in sequential order , or that all illustrated operations program instructions and data include all forms of non - volatile memory , media and memory devices , including by way of example semiconductor memory devices , e . g . , EPROM , EEPROM , and flash memory devices ; magnetic be performed , to achieve desirable results . In certain cir cumstances , multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous . Moreover , the separation of various system modules and components in the embodiments described disks , e . g . , internal hard disks or removable disks ; magneto 40 above should not be understood as requiring such separation optical disks ; and CD ROM and DVD - ROM disks . The processor and the memory can be supplemented by , or incorporated in , special purpose logic circuitry . To provide for interaction with a user , embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be imple - 45 mented on a computer having a display device , e . g . , a CRT ( cathode ray tube ) or LCD ( liquid crystal display ) monitor , for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device , e . g . , a mouse or a trackball , by which the in all embodiments , and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or pack aged into multiple software products . Particular embodiments of the subject matter have been described . Other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims . For example , the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results . As one example , the processes depicted in user can provide input to the computer . Other kinds of 50 the accompanying figures do not necessarily require the devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well ; for example , feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback , e . g . , visual feedback , auditory feedback , or tactile feedback ; and input from the user can be received in any form , including acoustic , speech , or tactile 55 input . In addition , a computer can interact with a user by sending documents to and receiving documents from a device that is used by the user , for example , by sending web pages to a web browser on a user ' s client device in response to requests received from the web browser . Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component , e . g . , as a data server , or that includes a middleware component , e . g . , an application server , or that includes a front end component , e . g . , a client 65 computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of particular order shown , or sequential order , to achieve desirable results . In certain implementations , multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous . What is claimed is : . One or more non - transitory computer storage media encoded with a data set , the data set associating each word a vocabulary of words with a respective numeric repre in sentation of the word in a high - dimensional space , wherein the data set indicates , for each word of a plurality of the words in the vocabulary and by the position of the numeric representation of the word in the high dimensional space , a semantic meaning of the word , wherein the data set indicates , for each of a plurality of pairs of words in the vocabulary and by the relative positions of the numeric representations of the words in the high - dimensional space , a degree of semantic rela US 9 , 740 , 680 B1 tionship , syntactic relationship , or both between the words in the pair of words , whereby the non - transitory computer storage media , when encoded with the data set , provides the function of representing in a quantitative way semantic and 5 syntactic relationships between and among words in the vocabulary , and wherein the one or more non - transitory computer storage media are encoded with the data set by a process comprising the steps of : obtaining a set of training data , wherein the set of training data comprises sequences of words ; training a plurality of classifiers and an embedding func tion on the set of training data , wherein the embedding function receives an input word and maps the input 15 word to a numeric representation in the high - dimen sional space in accordance with a set of embedding function parameters , wherein each of the classifiers corresponds to a respective position surrounding the input word in a sequence of words , and wherein each 20 of the classifiers processes the numeric representation of the input word to generate a respective word score for each word in a pre - determined set of words , wherein each of the respective word scores represents a predicted likelihood that the corresponding word will 25 be found in the corresponding position relative to the input word , and wherein training the embedding func tion comprises determining trained values of the embedding function parameters ; processing each word in the vocabulary using the embed - 30 ding function in accordance with the trained values of the embedding function parameters to generate a respective numeric representation of each word in the vocabulary ; generating the data set by associating each word in the 35 vocabulary with the respective numeric representation of the word in the high - dimensional space ; and storing the data set on the one or more non - transitory computer storage media . . The computer storage media of claim 1 , wherein the 40 numeric representations are continuous representations rep resented using floating - point numbers . . The computer storage media of claim , wherein positions of numeric representations in the high - dimensional space reflect semantic similarities between words repre - 45 sented by the numeric representations . . The computer storage media of claim positions of numeric representations in the high - dimensional space reflect syntactic similarities between words repre , wherein sented by the numeric representations . The computer storage media of claim 1 , wherein the embedding function maps the input word to a floating point vector . . One or more non - transitory computer storage media encoded with a data set , the data set associating each word in a vocabulary of words with a respective numeric repre s entation of the word in a high - dimensional space , wherein the data set indicates , for each word of a plurality of the words in the vocabulary and by the position of the numeric representation of the word in the high dimensional space , a semantic meaning of the word , wherein the data set indicates , for each of a plurality of pairs of words in the vocabulary and by the relative positions of the numeric representations of the words in the high - dimensional space , a degree of semantic rela tionship , syntactic relationship , or both between the words in the pair of words , whereby the non - transitory computer storage media , when encoded with the data set , provides the function of representing in a quantitative way semantic and syntactic relationships between and among words in the vocabulary , and wherein the one or more non - transitory computer storage media are encoded with the data set by a process comprising the steps of : obtaining a set of training data , wherein the set of training data comprises sequences of words ; training a classifier and an embedding function on the set of training data , wherein the embedding function receives a plurality of words surrounding an unknown word in a sequence of words and maps the plurality of words into a numeric representation in accordance with a set of embedding function parameters , wherein the classifier processes the numeric representation of the sequence of words to generate a respective word score for each word in a pre - determined set of words , wherein each of the respective word scores measure a predicted likelihood that the corresponding word is the unknown word , and wherein training the embedding function comprises determining trained values of the embedding function parameters ; processing each word in the vocabulary using the embed ding function in accordance with the trained values of the embedding function parameters to generate a respective numeric representation of each word in the vocabulary in the high - dimensional space ; generating the data set by associating each word in the vocabulary with the respective numeric representation of the word in the high - dimensional space ; and storing the data set on the one or more non - transitory computer storage media . . The computer storage media of claim 9 , wherein the numeric representations are continuous representations rep resented using floating - point numbers . The computer storage media of claim , wherein . The computer storage media of claim , wherein positions of numeric representations in the high - dimensional training the plurality of classifiers and the embedding func - 55 space reflect semantic similarities between words repre tion comprises preforming a backpropagation training tech - nique to determine the trained values of the embedding function parameters . sented by the numeric representations . . The computer storage media of claim , wherein positions of numeric representations in the high - dimensional space reflect syntactic similarities between words repre . The computer storage media of claim , wherein a dimensionality of the high - dimensional space is on the order 60 sented by the numeric representations . of one thousand . . The computer storage media of claim 1 , wherein each of the plurality of classifiers comprises a respective set of classifier parameters , and wherein training the plurality of . The computer storage media of claim 9 , wherein the embedding function maps each of the plurality of words to a respective floating point vector and outputs a single merged vector that is a combination of the respective float classifiers and the embedding function on the set of training 65 ing point vectors . data comprises determining trained values of each of the sets of classifier parameters . . The computer storage media of claim , wherein training the classifier and the embedding function comprises US 9 , 740 , 680 B1 preforming a backpropagation training technique to deter mine the trained values of the embedding function param eters . . The computer storage media of claim 9 , wherein a dimensionality of the high - dimensional space is on the order 5 of one thousand . . The computer storage media of claim 9 , wherein the classifier has a set of classifier parameters , and wherein training the plurality of classifiers and the embedding func tion on the set of training data comprises determining trained 10 values of the set of classifier parameters . * * * * *